Typography

Understanding The Basics

The Type Size, also called the Cap Height, is the overall height of capital letters in the 
  formation of words.
The Ascender is the upward tail on letters like h, l, t, b, d, and k.
The Descender is the downward tail for letters like g, q, and y.
The Counter is the white space located inside letters like o and p.
The X Height is the height of the letter, and does not include ascenders or descenders.
Baselines are the boundary that the lowest part of the letter rests on. 
  Take a look at the y, p, g, p and y letters in the illustration above. 
  The solid line they are resting on is the baseline.
  
Type Alignment

Default writing techniques will use left alignment to create easy to read text for the reader. 
  Casual letters, unpublished manuscripts, and basic paragraph styles tend to fall into this category.
Center alignment is used to draw attention and is used a majority of the time for Headlines or Titles. 
  Newspaper headers, book titles, and report titles are excellent examples of center alignment.
Right Alignment is a clean crisp professional look and is used quite a bit for corporate business 
  letters, return address labels, business cards and a variety of other applications where a formal 
  style of alignment is needed.
Justified alignment is usually reserved for newspaper print and body text for textbooks, 
  and is more difficult to work with. This type of alignment creates perfect alignment on both the 
  left and right margins without regard for the actual characters. This can lead to a condition called 
  tracking, or the creation of “rivers” of white space throughout the text body. If this happens, 
  reduce the tracking gradually to correct the illusion.
  
Font Type 

Serif type has extensions or strokes on the ends of the letters. Times New Roman is a perfect example 
  of this. This type of font is easy to read for longer pieces and tends to be a little more conservative. 
  If you do not deliberately choose another font, most programs default to the Times New Roman style.
San-Serif does not have extensions or strokes on the ends of the letters and are used heavily for labeling, 
  headlines and titles. This is also easy to read with a more contemporary feel to it. Children’s books use 
  this because it is more easily identifiable as children are learning the alphabet.
Script, symbols and decorative type are all styles of type categories to create a specific image or message. 
  Weddings might lean more toward the fluid motion of a script type while a child’s birthday might be more 
  inclined to like a decorative font from a favorite movie.
  
Recommendations

The font you decide on should not dominate the piece. Fonts are like exquisite jewelry to be placed in 
  just the right context to insure maximum results.
Use care when mixing fonts. It’s kind of like mixing stripes and plaids. When in doubt, stay with something 
  a little more conservative then add one splash of notice me.
Use consistency in your layouts. If you start out using an Arial font for the headers, stay with the same 
  font throughout the piece.
Newsletters with columns will look better if you use the Justified Alignment. Make sure you don’t create 
  rivers of white space though.
Use an 11 or 12 point font size and a serif type for maximum readability.
Use Italics and Bold to point out areas of interest or draw quick reference to information.
Use color for emphasis. Remember, reds draw the most attention if used correctly. It is amazing what one 
  spot of red can do for an ordinary ad.
  
Steps for better web typography

http://www.creativebloq.com/typography/better-web-typography-few-simple-steps-5132803 
